foreign
[Music]
it isn't a straight line and so what you
think to be moving backwards might just
be the way the humans learn right kids
go from walking to crawling
and so to be easy on yourself about your
learning process and be appreciative of
those moments that you are learning this
helps integration out more than anything
else
welcome to the art of accomplishment
where we explore how deepening
connection with ourselves and others
leads to creating the life we want with
enjoyment and ease I'm Brett Kistler
here today with my co-host Joe Hudson
[Music]
Joe's work chances are good that you
will have a transformational experience
you may suddenly recognize some pattern
you've played out over and over again in
your life and find the ability to step
out of it these types of experiences
have changed lives but we know that the
moment of epiphany is not the end of the
story
when you return to your life after a
profound breakthrough you may experience
feelings of confusion being lost or even
being unmoored from everything that once
grounded you that's why integration is
so important when doing this work
Joe what is a transformative experience
yeah that's a great question the funny
thing is when I was listening to your
introduction you talked about an
epiphany and I think there's um
it's really important to distinguish
between Epiphany and transformation
so with epiphany epiphany is kind of um
a recognition of a belief system that
offers you relief so it's like you you
understand something there's this click
in your
system
and there's this relief that occurs
transformation is distinct from that in
the fact that transformation actually
changes the way that you act
right it changes how you do things
and the Epiphany is a it's a really
important part of some Transformations
not all transformations that's a really
important part
but the thing to recognize about an
epiphany is it's dead almost as soon as
it arrives right so you have this
epiphany
and you're unburdened from a thought but
pretty soon that Epiphany can become
your next burden so maybe in some part
of the development you're hanging out
and you have this Epiphany like oh I
have will I have free will I can choose
and that's a really important thing to
say get out of like a victim mentality
or to see where um you can be more
empowered in your life and then you're
like choice choice choice choice choice
and then that becomes the next rut
because being completely in Choice which
was very important
prevents you from seeing Grace it
prevents you from seeing the fact that
maybe you've never really been able to
control any thought that you've had
that they've all been gifts that every
emotional experience that you have isn't
something that you can control you can
repress it or not but you can't control
it
and maybe you can't even decide to
repress it or not maybe it's just
instinctual
so each one of these epiphanies is like
the tender beginning of a rut
and I think it's really important to see
that because the important part is the
lifting away the important part is the
freedom from a constrictive thought
by seeing through it
it's not to attach yourself to The
Epiphany it's it's to recognize that
moment of Freedom that is created and to
step into that moment of Freedom more
and more often
transformation is a little bit different
than that transformation is
I now can't do things the same way and
it's not willpower right you can Will
yourself into some Transformations
potentially it's it's not an effective
way to do it but you can do it but it's
especially transformation that gets
especially confusing when
you
can't choose the same way anymore you
know we've had people in our work that
all of a sudden they go into a grocery
store
and they just like can't buy the same
things that they've always bought I know
that seems weird but it's happened more
than once where people all of a sudden
are more in tune with their system where
they just can't eat the same old crap
they've been eating
and those are the ones that are a little
bit more scary right and it's why
transformation can be a pain in the ass
sometimes because it's there's some
moments of feeling out of control
because you
don't have that experience that you've
relied on that habit that you've relied
on for years and sometimes it happens in
the weirdest ways so transformation is
just the change of what you do
intellectually it's it changes what you
get done and how it gets done but
emotionally
it's changing your decisions right
because you're allowing more fluidity of
emotions you want to feel more emotional
things instead of repressing them I
don't even know it's changing the
emotional context like within which all
your decisions are made that's right
yeah because you're
neurologically speaking you make
decisions based on emotions
as what you're willing to feel and what
you're willing not to feel what you're
excited to feel what you're excited to
feel that you used to be horrified a
feeling that will really change a lot of
the decisions you make
and then there's another transformation
that create that is created not from the
intellectual emotion but from the sense
of self
and when that sense of self changes
those can be some of the biggest shifts
that happen and it's a an experience of
deep freedom because
usually when the sense of self
transforms it widens it grows it becomes
less of a small thing more of a big
thing
and so there's less to defend what's an
example of that like sense of
self-changing for like what's a common
example of that in one of your courses
that somebody might experience what
would be somewhat common would be
so let's say there's this
a feeling of an abyss a place in their
life or psyche that they don't want to
look a person doesn't want to look
and every time they kind of glance over
at it they're like I don't want to look
there
then all of a sudden they see it for
what it is and they see it as a direct
path to freedom and they jump into it
and they're like oh that's that's
actually where I want to go it's it's
very much kind of the allegory of the
cave or you know Luke Skywalker going
into the cave where they just are like
okay I'm gonna go and face that thing
and oftentimes when that happens the
sense of self collapses in on itself in
some way particularly because
we Define ourselves in contrast to other
things right and so a sense of self
becomes more Universal if you were to
think about yourself just like in this
moment and say okay what am I but I
can't think of it
in terms of what I'm not right like
therefore I'm a soul but what that means
that you're not Material or
I am my thoughts but that means you're
not your body like if you think of
yourself not in the terms of a knot
every time one of those things that you
think you're not goes away and you find
out that you're that too then the sense
of self changes
and so oftentimes people avoid these big
abysses
and when they don't when they go into
them that sense of self completely
shifts and then there's like some really
big shifts of sense of self that can
happen and that those are the most
disorienting Transformations what kinds
of situation can trigger these
breakthroughs
[Laughter]
and almost anything
um
deep depression often transforms people
times of transition stress like where
the sense of self or your ideas or your
emotional Frameworks are not working and
so they have have to change you know
stress can change things
sometimes just a truth smacking you in
the face you know you just have that
moment where you're like oh [__] that is
not working
you can also just change people's
contexts like uh you know like
take a a wealthy
highfalutin person and stick them in a
ghetto with no money and they're going
to have transformation right or vice
versa there's going to be
a switch right to change in perspective
yeah the change of perspective and it
also changes who you think you are
because so much of who you think you are
is based on
and based on context and what people
tell you you are and if all of a sudden
year-round people don't tell you you're
that it starts to shift
I'm also emotional fluidity is a big
part of how transition changes
to have big emotional experiences
neurologically speaking it allows you to
kind of reprogram
some of the behavioral learnings that
you have big emotional experiences can
do that
so all of those things create can
trigger breakthroughs and and
transformation what does transformation
look like in deep in the process what
different ways can it show up literally
almost any way you can imagine so for
instance if we talk about like The
Awakening sense in the in the Zen Buddha
sense
um of Awakening to everybody says
Awakening and it can mean so many
different things but we're talking about
that moment when the sense of self
dissolves into Universal where you see
that you are everything and everything
is you
that that moment of Awakening
particularly is what I'm talking about
here for some people they don't even
notice it it's like such a gradual thing
and
it's like months after it happened they
look back and they're like oh holy crap
um for some people it's like
like people like Byron Katie or Eckhart
Tolle it's like they're in the deepest
depression and the next day they have
this utter Freedom
um for some people it's it looks like
Zen sickness where they have that
epiphany
does that have a word for it called Zen
sickness where
the sense of self shifts out of you so
you it's not you aren't you anymore
everything is you and you feel
depersonalized and I was talking to a
psychologist who was a meditator had
some Awakening experiences and he was
saying that a good percentage of what
people call
depersonalization disorder is like a Zen
sickness of Awakening where you get that
feeling of not being just you
but you don't like it let's say you try
to stop it and you're like and that
tension
creates a tremendous amount of disease
in your system and if you go on to like
the depersonalization disorder websites
and you look at people talking about
when it happened and how it happened
it is like exactly Awakening experiences
that you read in religious texts it's
unbelievable like I mean to the letter
kind of stuff
and so it can happen every way it can be
like a dark night of the Soul it can
feel like the bottom fell out from
underneath you like you have no place to
stand anymore and it can feel like
absolute Bliss and love so it sounds
like transformation isn't always a good
thing then for sure
um because
is it a good thing to get into shape
yes I would say is there going to be
uncomfortable moments of getting into
shape absolutely I would say so there's
freedom on the other side of it the
question is how much resistance and fear
is there between
in the integration or how it looks and
and they're exactly correlated
so if you get Zen sickness and you say
oh okay this is normal this is Zen
sickness this pass is no big deal like
you have a very different experience and
if you're like what the hell is
happening how do I get it to stop so
it's again putting it in context yeah
exactly there there are moments that can
be uncomfortable and those moments can
be seen through in an instant okay and
and I think a large part of my work when
I work with people is that when they
meet these states just to let them know
it's common just to let them know I've
seen it many many times before
and almost that often can transform
everything because it's really they just
get scared that what they knew isn't
available to them anymore
and the thing about integration is when
it's integrated you have complete
availability to where you were before
and you have available availability to a
new thing it increases your flexibility
it doesn't it doesn't decrease it so if
you want to go be angry and Prejudiced
and hateful or if you want to go be in
the bad habit again or
The Habit that you felt was
uncomfortable you can you have that
choice you can go back and
eat this stuff it's just gonna hurt more
so then let's talk about integration and
um how to support the smoothest
integration from these experiences what
does integration mean to you and what
makes it important integration it's like
I think it's the integral people who
talk about it as transcend and integrate
and it and I think about it on those
terms a lot like there's
a way in which you're
like if you go from walking to crawling
you don't lose your capacity to crawl
you just walk most of the time
and it's like that it's just like
there's a new flexibility there's a new
way of doing things
and so that's that's what I think about
when I think about integration and it's
that time of moving from
um the unknown of a new Epiphany or a
new skill set into the known so if you
look at really early stage Child
Development there's the
primary reaction the tertiary reaction
it's and it's basically like a little
kid a baby
they have a hand and they don't know
that that hand is part of them so the
hand hits them and scratches them and
whacks them in the face and the baby's
surprise like what the hell is that
thing
and then all of a sudden they see that
that hand is theirs and they know it
but they don't particularly know how to
control it and then they learn how to
control it and these are the ways that
we develop in everything there's the
kind of the original Epiphany that
happens and it leaves us in this kind of
unknown like what the hell is going on
and then the second stage is oh I see it
but I can't completely I haven't
completely mastered it
and then there's the Mastery of it and
this can take you know many years for
some epiphanies and it can take minutes
for other epiphanies and or other
transformation other experiences so
that's how I think of it there but
there's almost always those three stages
that go on and the integration is
getting from that first moment of like
aha oh whoa to oh this is normal and the
amazing thing is oftentimes when it's
normalized when you've mastered it you
kind of forget it it's there
and the reason you forget it's the hair
is because you've confused the skill
with the with the feeling of euphoria or
Epiphany that you get when you first get
the realization so like watching an
infant walk for the first time and they
walk and they're like and they get super
excited
and then they're not excited when
they're walking at three years old it's
just normal they hardly are conscious
that they're walking
but they don't confuse walking with the
Elation but as you get into other stages
of development
you confuse the Elation with the new
perspective because it's all happening
internally
it's not physical you can't measure it
or see it outside of yourself so what
does it look like when this when this
process is healthy it sounds like like
that that story with a baby is like
that's sort of a healthy integration
looks like you have the Epiphany you see
yourself in a way that you hadn't seen
yourself before you're not immediately
sure what to do about this but you just
start to find that your actions change
your your words change and you start to
kind of develop this relationship with
your Fuller self
until eventually it becomes second
nature and then you stumble into a new
Epiphany I would say that you know the
choices that you can make in the
integration that I think are really
important that help for that healthy
integration are things like
not trying to find the answers like
after a good integration you have less
answers not new answers
so it's it's not going from like oh this
is the right answer to this is the right
answer it's going from oh I know Less in
a way and I'm more comfortable with it
there's more of a mystery out there and
I'm more comfortable with it and at the
same time I know more of my own truth I
know more of my own self so there's a
deeper knowing of self and truth but
less of a knowing
of kind of like having solid answers to
things it's also like
choosing the sensitivity side instead of
less sensitive often with transformation
we become sensitive to new things
because we're not repressing stuff
anymore
and so embracing that new sensitivity
and not trying to block that sensitivity
so those are some of the choices that
you can make and and also to to see as
you're moving forward
it is in a straight line and so what you
think to be moving backwards might just
be the way the humans learn right kids
go from walking to crawling
and so to be easy on yourself about your
learning process and be appreciative of
those moments that you are learning this
helps integration out more than anything
else right these things the first time
you draw a boundary of a particular kind
or speak or truth in a particular way it
might be messy yeah most likely it'll be
messy yeah that's right it sounds like a
lot of what you've just been describing
is like as we transform and start to see
ourselves more clearly we let go of some
of our deeply patterned behaviors so
that they may just become more
like a little bit more ambiguous we
don't assume to know what's going on in
the world and we have more space for
curiosity and wonder and to see the
subtlety in things and that leads to
sort of that I'm not knowing what's
going to happen yeah so there's more
flexibility in life it's less patterned
response I think if you're look if
you're saying oh
if you know the integration is going
well if you want to look it's not
short-term it's like you can't monitor
every minute and say is this happening
but like over weeks or months the
question is
do I have more emotional fluidity does
do emotions move through my body more
smoothly do I take things less
personally
is my physical Sensations am I more
aware of physical Sensations am I
experiencing that world differently
our patterns losing their grip these are
the things that in pendulation going
back and forth between the learning and
the old Behavior and the new behavior
these are the marks of of integration
happening so let's talk a little bit
more about what can go wrong
um you talked a little bit about like
the Zen sickness type thing derulization
uh what else can happen almost all of it
I wouldn't say all of it but almost all
of what can go wrong is resistance to
what is right so oftentimes when we're
transfer when when transformation has
happened we have a deeper acceptance and
love of ourselves and so
the next thing that needs to be loved
the next thing that's been rejected
shows up to be loved and we don't see it
as showing up to be loved we see it as
showing up and [__] with us
oh my goodness I was just in this Bliss
State now there's anger instead of like
oh there's the anger it needs to be
loved now too it needs to be integrated
now too
so when we start resisting the movement
or start fearing the movement in
particular that's when things can go
really sideways like I don't want to
feel this way I don't want to have
emotions
this often I don't want to be
this sensitive I don't want to see the
world in a non-personal way
instead of saying ah this is it and this
is this is the natural flow of things it
must be because I'm experiencing it and
and being settled with it that lack of
resistance is what makes everything go
very smoothly so usually most of the
stuff that goes wrong
is really just people in fear of
the transformation that's happening that
particular stage of transformation
that's happening and when I work with
people and I just as soon as they find
out it's normal and they see that I'm
not bothered by it and I'm like oh yeah
yeah it's yeah it kind of feels like
you're walking but you're not entirely
it's not entirely you walking like that
could be an experience or oh yeah your
visual field changed or oh yeah you go
to the grocery store that's happened
before then they can get curious about
it and everything shifts some exceptions
to this are things like
some Kundalini energy Awakening stuff
that it's definitely impacted by how
much you're allowing of it but there you
can push transformation through your
energetic channels
I don't really speak about this very
much
um I think energy the idea of energy is
misinterpreted by a lot of people I
think that
as soon as you say it you know anybody
who's who considers defines themselves
rational can say energy you know like
there's no such thing or whatever they
want to do I think one way to bridge
that for anybody listening to this is
looking for a rational bridge to this
stuff would be just to think about it as
like nervous system activity yeah
there's a lot of different ways that you
can produce a lot of different nervous
system type responses that can be
described metaphorically with energy
that's exactly right yeah they're you
know somebody who I learned a lot from
around it just called them like close
cousins like they're almost identical
hard to see the difference between the
nervous system and the energetic system
and so I absolutely agree that's the
best way to think about it I think
the other way to think about it that I
can be very helpful is bodily Sensations
non-muscular bodily Sensations is
another way to think about it
but anyways you can those things can
shift in such a way that maybe they keep
you up all night or you're excited too
much or you know something can go out of
whack there
and that's kind of far more of a
physical thing that's happening it can
be really exaggerated by certain breath
work or
certain
um yogic practices uh and if if that's
happening
and you've confused like oh that
Kundalini thing is gonna set you free
then I really suggest like going seeing
a professional like a really good
acupuncturist or
something like that who can rebalance
that energetic system or nervous system
and then the other thing that can happen
is
people can go into traumas
and
um like relive a deep trauma and not be
held in a deeply loving container for
enough time
for them to integrate that trauma and
see that they're not living it anymore
that it's it was something that was in
the past
and so that's another place where it can
go wrong somebody goes into a trauma
and like they're it's it's like they
can't be held in love they can't be held
in like unconditional acceptance and
then therefore it gets stuck again
it will move but it's just not it's not
the skillful way to move through it and
it's definitely not the
the most gentle way to move through it
or the most efficient so those are the
some of the places we can go wrong where
someone can just like one person who's
not very skilled at holding trauma
they've just kind of processed their own
decides that they really know about
trauma and somebody
move some trauma because they know some
of the exercises or things that can move
that trauma and
and but they don't know actually how to
hold it so that's another place where it
can go wrong so I really
recommend if you're moving trauma to
move it with somebody who has some
experience in that place to really dive
into those places yeah along those lines
I'm curious about a pattern that I've
seen before in this in this type of work
and this happens in all kinds of student
teacher relationships where there's uh
like a mentor in the role of
transmitting the wisdom of some practice
or facilitating you know trauma release
of some kind
where the student walks away from an
experience feeling transformed but also
increasingly feeling dependent on their
teacher or some other projected
gatekeeper of the wisdom what do you
have to say about that yeah in general
avoid teachers who do that
um is what I would say
um but it can get a little confusing
there too
so the kind of teacher that I would
recommend is a teacher who's constantly
pointing you back to your own truth
who's teaching you the skills that you
need to be
independent to be more successful and
more self-aware
more skillful in your means so to speak
and
and the way to get there most
efficiently is to really teach you how
to listen to yourself and to follow your
own truth
and encourage you to not take their word
as solid gold
or even wisdom but to take their words
and experiment with it and find out
what's working for you
and so that's the that's the
relationship the relationship is where
the teacher doesn't see themselves as
better than or worse than or equal to
you but they see themselves what best
can be described as you
and that's kind of the best relationship
the most effective relationship maybe
you need something else and and maybe
you need you know to explore
the depth of a dysfunctional teaching
relationship or a a one where you
you know decide somebody else
somebody else knows better for you than
you do
but it's definitely not anything I would
recommend and if you're doing it you
know go into it consciously the
confusion in this is that if I was
teaching you physics you wouldn't assume
that you understand physics after I
taught you two workshops you know what I
mean like okay we spent four hours
together
um learning physics and you're like okay
I got it right so there's things that
the teacher should know because they
have more experience in the in the work
that you might not know you might not
have spent the time on the landscape
you might not have like been in the
terrain as long so there's something
about that the teacher should hold some
value
but it shouldn't look like dependency it
should constantly look like you know
it's increasing your capacity
as a person for the most part pretty
consistently there might be some
Strays you know there might be some
backwaters that you get caught in right
but sometimes you have students who are
just like okay well I've now I've I've
spent 16 hours with you I'm ready to
teach
it's like they they always find out the
hard way that teaching isn't as sexy as
they think it is well there's also just
like there's there's the contrast
between the pre-transformation self and
the post-transformation self where all
of a sudden you just feel like you see
the world so clearly and like there's a
part of you that just immediately comes
in like the ego comes in it's like okay
now I see the world completely I'm ready
exactly I mean that's where like the the
idea of a tradition holds power I mean
it holds some things back and it gives
really good things but like since we
were talking about Zen today let's let's
talk about it and you know somebody has
a big Awakening in Zen and you know like
a master will just smack him on the back
of the of the back with a cane that it
really hurts and they're like okay who
felt that then right where where they're
basically challenging
that part of you that thinks now I get
it the part of you that thinks that
there's a Finish Line that it's not a
constant Evolution that there's some
place where transformation stops
and the tradition that's one of the
really beautiful things about a
tradition and there's other things that
limit you in a tradition as well when
you start thinking that the tradition is
truth or that the writings are truth or
the teacher is truth instead of
what's happening internally right being
the truth I think I think something that
happens that contributes to the uh sort
of the starry-eyed teacher worship thing
is that having a Transformer experience
where what you described is like you've
been de-patterned a little bit and you
feel like there's like a like sort of a
404 like you've described yourself sort
of sitting the unknown and I think that
can lead to sort of a fear of
being in that unknown and a desire to
kind of collapse that unknown down onto
something like like a teacher or some
particular belief that like
gives us that sense of knowing again
absolutely like we're constantly
trying to find some way that we feel
like we're in control or that we're
ground we're on like okay I know this is
real
the truth is it's like just the opposite
it's like the more you go the more you
realize that it's not real yeah and at
the same time interestingly almost
paradoxically
you're far more grounded you're far more
it's far less likely that you're going
to be swayed from your love and your
freedom and your truth yeah I think this
this kind of speaks to the importance of
community coming out of like the courses
of yours that I've taken it has been
really really helpful to have other
people who have been through the same
experience and deal the cross-reference
with them how they're doing in their
lives
um and not just be dropped back into my
previous life
and having a hard time contextualizing
Community is that is far more important
than the teacher I would say
that they they really help each other
out hopefully there's so much more
wisdom to be gotten from a community of
practice with a similar intention than
there is from a teacher
if I'm teaching someone how to access
their anger my capacity to do that is
not as good as the person who just
learned or at least they have some
capacity that I do not have
someone who's just learned to release
their anger like you know
um in a safe way it's just it's just
like it's electric you know and so a
community can do that because there's
people at different stages learning
different things they can teach each
other we see this learning math with you
know third graders
so that Community is incredibly
important I think that that's really
important it's also really important
because there's a kind of a
relatableness that people going through
the journey together can have and
and so there's less fear can kind of
interrupt the transformation and and
maintain the pattern so I think for
that's another reason the community is
just so critical
and to allow yourself to be a part of
that community and be vulnerable in that
Community is tremendous the weakness of
a community is that a whole Community
can decide that the teacher is special
right and the teacher could buy into
that and then the whole system locks in
too
yeah it's a yeah that agreement between
a community and a and a teacher or a
facilitator or leader is a
you know there's there's something in us
there's something natural just like
there's something naturalness that wants
sex there's something natural in us that
wants
somebody to know what the hell is going
on
to have the answer to know which way to
go so that we can feel safe and it's why
when we do kind of the longer term
courses one of the things we learned is
that that wisdom is best found in the
community it's found in group
intelligence which is really tricky to
access and you need a lot of skills to
get there but
I mean that's the far deeper wisdom and
I teach that because I like to access
that wisdom
you know what I mean like I can sit here
and talk blah blah blah I can play the
role of the person who
knows something but one of the places
that I get the most Insight I learn the
most is to watch a community
access its deeper intelligence and and I
love that I love working that way in
business I love working that way with
people it's it's where I learn and I
grow the most and I find everybody
learns and grows the most so then for
for people that are coming out of
courses and going back into
into their world and trying to create or
be a part of community or be doing this
work with the people in their lives
um I've I've experienced that it can be
it can be really difficult to present
the work how do we present what we're
doing to people in our lives when we say
hey I just did this course it was really
great it was transformational for me
what's the best way to to describe this
to people I don't
really I say don't um try to describe it
to people
um describe your experience to people
don't describe the work meaning just
show up with more unconditional love for
the people around you show up with more
self-awareness show up with more
but less patterned responses show up in
a way that inspires them to to join you
and meet you but I I don't recommend
missionary work or using the tools on
people that
um who have who are not in agreement to
do it it
it's a form of like better than this you
have to kind of think that you've just
discovered something that makes you
there's a very natural part of it where
you just discovered something to give
you Freedom you want to share it with
everybody
and if you can even own that it's just
like okay I just experienced something
that I really want to share because it's
giving me so much happiness and I
realize that like I do not want to push
anything on you and like how do you want
to deal with that you know I think
that's a beautiful thing to say to
somebody and see where they are with it
but to do it without permission
um to do it without like Consciousness
just just don't just be in your in your
new world
enjoy it enjoy them just as they are
that's that's what I suggest and what
would be a good line between to draw
between the tools that are actually
meant to be brought into the world like
having a view conversation and how what
questions
um and some of the tools that are
perhaps not ready to be brought to
people who haven't been exposed to the
work like projection Reclamation or
something like that yeah if you're
asking them to do anything then don't do
it so in view you don't have to ask them
to do anything or be any way you just
ask questions and
speak from a vulnerable impartial
empathetic and space of wonder
so you're not requiring anything from
them but as soon as you're asking them
to do something or you're telling them
about their experience or you're trying
to cajole them into a new way of being
or
trying to have power over them or feel
in control or
not feel the helplessness that you have
being their friend anything like that
then then don't do that yeah it sounds
like that just comes straight back down
to to being in view like not being
partial that's right not trying to
change them that's exactly it yeah okay
so do you have any more tips then for
for those of us who just come from a
course and are ready to present our new
selves or transform themselves into the
world and to the other people in our
lives yeah so
I think the main thing there is that
there is a natural pressure from a
society or a group
or a marriage to
have you be who you were
it's hard for people to see the new you
it's hard for you to see the new version
of a person across from you
and there's behaviors that you've agreed
upon you have an agreement like hey I'm
Gonna Save you you're going to be a
victim or you're going to bully me and I
get to be resentful
and no matter how
healthy or unhealthy those Agreements
are there's a pressure to stay in those
relationships and so I think about the
three to five rule in this which is
when you have a new Behavior you're
drawing a new boundary when you're
you should expect that the person is
going to treat you like your old self
three to five times
and each time they're gonna kind of up
the ante on the behavior
so let's say you've got a husband who is
a Yeller
and you're like oh okay well I don't
want to be with you yelling um but I
really want to be with you so when
you're yelling I'm going to leave the
house
and I'll come back in 30 minutes and if
we can talk great and if we can't then
I'll leave the house again for 30
minutes
it's going to take three to five times
of doing that before that person the
husband gets it and it's like okay
I got it like I yelling doesn't work
anymore and most likely they're going to
get even more they're going to use a
whole bunch of other tricks to keep you
in so they're going to up the ante three
to five times and then the behavior
falls apart
so just that's the expectation and and
I'm really grateful that it's built this
way that you know Humanity seems to tend
to act in this way because
it really forces us to learn to keep
that boundary it forces us to really
learn to
what what's necessary to change this
Behavior even under stressful
circumstances
so it's actually quite a gift but it's
it's good to keep it in mind that like
you're not going to go back into your
world and everybody's going to be like
oh hey he's different so now I'm just
going to treat him
like the new person that he is
there will be resistance and it's an
opportunity to double down on doing the
work that's exactly it yeah yeah well
said
I think the other thing to know is that
some people are going to go away you
know if you transform there some people
are going to be like I don't like the
new agreement
that only happens I find like 70 80
percent of the times people stay in 20
to 30 people leave uh everybody's very
scared of it right so whenever somebody
transforms one of the ways they kind of
try to revert is to go
oh my God I'm gonna lose so and so
they're scared of the result
but it doesn't happen as frequently as
you would think you know only 20 or 30
percent of the time
and it's basically like hey this is the
way I want to live hey this isn't the
way that I want to live and if you can
see it that way it's really beautiful
it's not personal
it's just choices that people are making
it's great to see it that way because it
can just be really transparent that way
too it's like hey so I've decided that I
want to live in a world where
you know we show up in love instead of
showing up in shame with each other
do you want to join me do you want to
support each other in that
transformation like if the more
transparent that articulation of your
vision is
then the easier it is for people to meet
you and the less likely it is that
they're gonna
decide to leave and some people are
going to leave some people are just not
going to want to live and have it the
world that you want to create for
yourself but it's nothing to fear
because better people show up you know
or not better but people who want to
live in those agreements they always
show up and those who stay are getting a
more self-aware version of you that's
right yeah and
not only do they they show up
you also start inviting people in who
are also transforming and so that
propels your own transformation so it
really works out well
and and oftentimes those people can't
show up if the space is filled by
you know someone who's abusive or
doesn't have the same agreements in this
work you like we touched on a little bit
earlier you often highlight the
importance of staying in the not knowing
after a breakthrough or seeing through
some habitual way of perceiving things
but integration necessarily seems to
involve some kind of a collapse from
that unknowing State into some new
identity which becomes a new rut how do
we stay the most in that Unknowing
without collapsing it but still staying
grounded in our lives yeah that's a
great question I think it's not about
trying to stay in the not knowing is
it's more about not trying to get into
the knowing I think there's like um you
know some big thing happens in your
mind's like let me figure that out I
kind of figured that out
and your mind always figures it out I
guarantee it if your mind at this moment
hasn't figured it out I guarantee you it
will
like have a little patience with it it
might take a couple months
but like I was talking about there's
like those three stages of development
as far as like
the baby's hand not knowing it's the
hand hitting and scratching its face
and then there's the oh I know it's my
hand and then there's the Lego I can
control my hand
those three stages are really important
and if you cut any of them short like
the full integration doesn't happen it's
just like you know babies need to crawl
for a while for them to get like
solid left right brain cohesion
so it's just a really important thing to
allow the not knowing to be there as
long as it wants to be there meaning not
forcing it and then then the knowing
shows up just kind of like oh I get it
it's not figured out it's just like oh I
get it and then all of a sudden you can
articulate it
and that process is the smoothest and it
and it creates the deepest integration
if you like strive to put words on its
drive to understand it
then you're limiting it you're
containing it in a way that doesn't
allow it to like fully transform you
well thanks a lot Joe this has been a
great episode thanks for talking to us
about integration pleasure yeah good to
talk to you as always
[Music]
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
[Music]
foreign